foreign
it's really a point of view of looking
at the world follow your Wonder like
it's a trail and just follow it in the
conversation about the other person
about yourself in the conversation just
follow it
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease my name is Brett
Kissler I'm an adventurer entrepreneur
and a self-exploration Enthusiast I'm
here with my co-host Joe Hudson Joe is a
business coach who spent decades working
with some of the world's top Executives
and teams developing a unique model of
human patterns that underpin how we
operate with ourselves each other and
the world a good entry point into this
model is a mindset called view
vulnerability impartiality empathy and
wonder through understanding and
cultivation we learn to easefully drop
into the view State of Mind deepening
self-awareness and increasing our
connection with the world around us to
learn more about this podcast or courses
visit art of accomplishment.com
most of us spend a lot of our time
feeling a subtle pressure to know things
to understand our world so that we can
make predictions feel safe and be seen
as knowledgeable but the moment we think
we know everything is also the moment we
stop learning what if there's always
more to the story than we can ever know
and how might living our lives from a
consistent place of Wonder give us more
actionable information and opportunities
than clinging to what we think we know
this is the practice of Wonder the W in
view
Joe can you tell me what you mean by
Wonder
is there's a lot of ways to describe it
but one of the ways to describe it is to
say like we've all felt it before we all
know that like
and and maybe some of us haven't felt it
since we were kids
um but that's that's something that we
all know and and what it is it's like
curiosity without looking for an answer
because when you're looking for an
answer you can just feel in your system
that your system constricts a little bit
or if you're just like oh my gosh what
is happening here and there's no
pressure to find an answer like an
answer may come but there's no pressure
then the state the physical state
remains expansive so it's like that the
other way to think of it is it's like
curiosity and awe put together right and
the thing about awe the reason I use
that word in particular is because
if you're awestruck by something you you
have a recognition that it's out of your
control it's something that's like
Beyond you
beyond your ability to maybe even
recognize in that moment
and there's only a few things in in the
way that the human psyche works that
creates that
gratitude is another one that creates
that feeling of like there's something
greater and acknowledging that you need
things is another because it just all
these things are outside of your control
often most of the time say we don't say
gratitude like I'm really grateful that
I kicked ass I mean we might
occasionally but most of the time we're
grateful for things that are Beyond us
and that's the thing about wonder it has
awe because we are we acknowledge that
there's something beyond our ability to
even maybe recognize
so that's another way of of thinking of
it that the other thing and that's
particularly important to view
conversations is that you're in the
question
right there is um a time in my life when
this question arose
and it was what am I was basically the
question and I was in that question for
10 years
and it wasn't about trying to answer the
question it was about being in the
question
I could come up with answers but every
answer was based on some context you
know I could say I'm my body but then I
would you know be in wonderful while I'm
like well which part of my body I got my
body in half which part of my body is me
and to realize that even that isn't me
what it what am I and the the power of
that was being in the question it wasn't
ever finding the answer to the question
and so that's another way to look at
wonder is that you're in the question
right it's like when the moment you come
up with an answer it's like the search
stops but if you stay in the question
there's always opportunity for some
other aspect to come in I got some other
aspect of yourself to be seen
exactly yeah that's beautifully put yeah
how does how does cultivating a
persistent State of Wonder benefit us
what does this do for us there's so many
ways in which it doesn't mean if you
just think about those times that you're
awestruck like imagine a life when
you're awestruck all the time and just
imagine living a life where that is 10
20 more of your life just even 10 or 20
percent more awestruck by life
there's this thought process that people
share about miracles and that actually
that we're experiencing Miracles all the
time but we're so used to them or we can
describe enough of them
yeah we can describe like the sun for
instance you can just be awestruck by
the sun you can answer forever
you know how it got formed maybe and how
it's working and so
or you see it every day so there's
nothing to be awestruck about but if you
really like just contemplate like why
why Sun why Universe why Cosmos
and goodness like how did it yes all
this stuff happened but how did it
actually come to pass that we were
circling the sun it's just awe-inspiring
and it and it leads you to places
um that you can't get to any other way
there's um I was listening to out of all
people recently the head of
Amazon and he talked about the beginning
of his day he would just wander he would
just he just wanders in his mind in the
Spade like that's part of what he does
because there's a there's a harvest from
wandering or from being in Wonder and
just exploring
without looking for a place to land
there's a harvest that comes from that
because you discover all sorts of cool
stuff
and so this this applies in business and
in relationships and you know oftentimes
when people are in relationships one of
the things that you see is that they
just everybody thinks they know
everybody
[Laughter]
and and so they they've categorized
everybody and then the relationship gets
dull whereas if you're in wonder
it's a constant exploration you know who
I am when I married my wife is very
different than who I am today and
there's constantly an evolution to be
discovered in my wife and and
and for her to discover in me and that
keeps a relationship fresh keeps a
business fresh in the exact same way
uh it's it's nice in the body like to be
in wonders just feels really good it's
quite an enjoyable thing and another
thing that it does is it's really it's
quite an antidote to fear if you say do
this experiment close your eyes and
imagine you are
running from a tiger and the Tigers is
coming and it's getting closer you can
hear the footsteps you can like hear its
breath it's panting to like catch you
and you're running as fast as you can
and you don't really think there's any
way out
and you know it's about to come and
pounce and now wonder how much does that
tiger weigh
like you can't hold the fear if you're
in curiosity and Aaron wonder and you
can't be in Wonder particularly if
you're holding the fear so to reflect on
what is what you are and wonder about
immediately does something to the fear
that that the subtle the more subtle
fears that may be running through you
so that's another one it's like uh it's
like the fear itself is something that
optimizes us to produce a fast result
and a fast output but not too
not to process more deeply
uh and that's I think that's a that's a
good thing sometimes I mean I imagine if
we if we walk around being constantly
awestruck by the sun and the universe
that must have its its drawbacks I mean
there are there are people who who do
that
constantly and they're disconnected from
from the world they're not taking any
action one more thing before we go there
the one more thing is just to say that
the the other thing that it benefits you
being in Wonder is that it it um you
know in today's world it's really not
the answer right in the age of Google
anybody can find an answer it's really
the right question like are you asking
the right question
and being in Wonder helps you ask the
right questions right one person can
spend their life
building Google and another person can
um building the local tire shop and they
can both work just as hard as each other
it's just a different question that
they're living in
or one person can say ask what's the
what's the phone that everybody will use
and another person will ask the question
what's the phone that's easy to use
and you're going to get two different
phones right so being in Wonder really
helps you understand the value of the
right questions as the last one right
can help you break out of the limited
context of your previous question into a
bigger question
yeah yeah it brings you back to that
that question that I just had of
uh if we're constantly breaking out of
the limited question into the biggest
question of why Sun y Universe uh how do
we how do we ground ourselves in that
what yeah is there is there a going too
far with this Wonder thing
I don't know anybody who can actually be
in a Perpetual State of Wonder I've
never seen that there's a way in which
there there's a way to have a pretty
consistent awestruck experience of the
world is actually interesting I was
recently uh listening to all these
people who'd lived over a hundred years
and I know I've actually met a couple as
well and they something that they all
have in common is that they all have
this just like isn't it wonderful you
know or they're talking about like they
ate this food and it was just so amazing
or they did they were doing little
things but it was these little things in
life that just created so much awe and
joy and wonder in them and yet they were
100 years old
or more and they had friends and they
had family and they had careers that
they had lived through and but that was
the that was the the thing that they all
had in common and it's just just like
kids are the same way right that they
have this amazing
Wonder in their worlds
and they learn incredibly quickly right
and and
if you kill it completely you can get a
task done but you might not get the
right task done
and so yeah there's a place where Wonder
Ebbs and flows
it's really about your access to it in
the moment and and I think that there is
this illusion of kind of like this
person who's constantly
like disassociated from life and their
in this constant state of Wonder my
experiences of those people is that
they're not actually in a constant state
of Wonder it you know it's it's good for
books and stuff but but they actually
are is they're in a constant state of a
disassociation where they where whatever
is happening in real life is very
difficult for them and so they're
their mode of being able to handle that
isn't to fight it's it's kind of to
disassociate and so I I don't see people
who are in like a deep State of Wonder
like too much I just I just don't I
haven't seen it but I kind of expect if
you are in a state of Wonder so much
that you have stopped doing stuff that
obviously would go too far
uh but one of the things that Wonder
does interestingly is it it propels you
to do stuff right like I'm really
curious how does this work propels you
to do stuff
oh wow what would happen if I
you know had this
different kind of business or have I
changed my business in this way or if I
have I looked at my wife this way or if
I looked at my best friend this way it
propels you to to change the way you're
doing stuff run experiments and learn
when I see people in that deep level of
curiosity
then there's a lot of movement in their
life now if there's other things
that are happening that might stop them
from taking action that would be more
things like depression or being lost in
their head all the time in their thought
not you know repressed anger things like
that
that would be a stuck feeling and and I
don't know a lot of people who have that
stuck feeling or anybody who has that
stuck feeling
who also has a lot of Wonder right
because let's say you're depressed and
you have a ton of wonder what happens
you're like huh what's making me
depressed what is depressed exactly
I don't mean what what is what part of
me what's the me that's depressed what's
the me that's that can see through that
can see I'm depressed
how does that work yeah how is this
feeling of depression being like in my
body right yeah and as you start asking
this question the depression starts to
alleviate because the depression is
being created
mostly because of a critical voice in
the head that there's no curiosity about
right you can just turn that Curiosity
right to the critical voice in the head
and things will change
pretty quickly if you can consistently
have that state of wonder about the
voice in your head
not trying to solve it but just to be in
awe of like whoa what is this thing
constantly managing me
what gives it the right what what what
what makes it thinks it's right well
what what makes it think it's it's good
at its job when it's created complete
stagnation in my system what makes it
thinks as good as its job if it's still
having to manage me over the same
10 years later
like what is happening here like that
state of awe and wonder
is going to shift a lot it's going to
create you can just feel how that
creates movement so I've never really
seen people stop doing
obviously you know if you're in a state
of Wonder so much that you're like can't
you can't complete a sentence because
you're so in awe of the language that's
gonna get problematic I've just I've
just never seen it yeah the uh the
example of the old people reminds me of
something I learned recently about uh
dementia where there are there are
people who die who have like a normal
normal life and are vibrant throughout
their older years their later years and
then they die and their brain is uh
autopsied and they have the brain of
somebody who has dementia
but they didn't have it and the the
difference between the people who don't
actually present it psychologically
are that they have they're constantly
learning they're constantly in Wonder
um so they're they're constantly
rewiring so even though the wiring is
getting tangled it's developing new
Pathways all the time versus living in
the same Pathways that are just breaking
down over time and then becoming less
and less efficient
wow I didn't know that that's beautiful
you can start to feel it in your 40s and
and definitely in your 50s is
desire to stay in the neural Pathways to
stay in the routine of life and it just
starts to take the joy out of life and
like look at how few people you see in
their 70s who are living
a joyful life you know like exuberant
life and
their lives are great often when their
70s outside of potentially some physical
pain there
you know they're retired in America at
least in America they're retired and
they have a family and they
you know but there's just no wonder in
it
what happens to us
um when we shut that Wonder down like in
in the moment let's say in a in a
conversation or a business negotiation
um where for example we're worried about
getting it right or being perfectly
understood
um and so we we shut down the Wonder
what what happens then and more simply I
guess the question is what is the
opposite of wonder
yeah
the opposite of Wonders is knowing or or
wanting to be maybe seen as knowing
since knowing is really Impossible on
one level of looking at it so the way I
would say it is you know I see this all
the time especially when I was a venture
capitalist I saw this all the time which
was people would come to me and they'd
make their pitch and the the standard
way of thinking about it was that they
were going to come and impress me with
their knowledge
um show me that they had a really good
business idea
and then I would know that they have
really good business idea and then I
would give them money that would be the
kind of the standard way that they would
come to the meeting
which is weird because as a venture
capitalist I probably should know more
about it than they do because I'm in 10
businesses or at least the same amount
as they do
and so they're coming in with this
knowing trying to share the knowing and
what basically happens is
if I agree with them I will fund it and
if I don't agree with them I won't fund
it which is a very limited potential to
fund it right so there's just like this
very skinny chance that we're gonna
agree
but if they come in with Wonder and I I
had this happen once I remember I was so
blown away by it
um it was a great company it was very
successful this CEO came in to raise the
money and he was like okay so what do
you need to see to to to fund what are
the boxes that you need to check off and
I would you know immediately told him
because that would save me a ton of
time right instead of having to listen
to you know 10 slides on
the total addressable market and what
the market was like is if I would like
hadn't done that research or whatever
and
um
and then he just went through and went
through exactly what I needed to hear
and he started in a place of Wonder
instead of a place of knowing and he he
knew that I would be more attracted to
him in a Learning Journey than I would
in a being told what what what is right
and what is wrong and if you just think
about that like you look at your friends
look at your friends who know what's
right and wrong and like how enjoyable
is it to be around them right I don't
know how many companies I've been in
where I see somebody
and they're like that's the problem
person I'm like okay and then you can
meet the problem person the problem
person thinks they know everything they
that's that's the problem person is they
they think they're right about
everything there's no wonder in their
system they're also probably pointing at
a lot of problem people because they
know it yeah that's right that's right
so they're not in The Learning Journey
with anybody
and and nobody wants to be that what
people want to be is in a Learning
Journey with each other you know we like
to have someone who knows some stuff
yeah I mean it's great people are
listening to this podcast right now
hopefully with the idea that I might
know something
but my job is to go on learning Journeys
with people my job is to ask them what
they know is to ask open-ended questions
to them
my job is to assume that they know the
best step that's there for them
and in a way that I couldn't how could I
know that I don't know their whole
history I don't know everything that
happened to them
it doesn't matter if I had the wisdom of
every human being in the world except
for them they still know more than I do
about what they're supposed to do next
so if you're in a state of knowing and
trying to like convince people of your
knowing that's that's the opposite
and then and being attached to your
knowing which is like utterly ridiculous
on so many levels because knowing is
only relevant based on context right
meaning
let's say I know it's it's bad to lie
that's a context that I'm assuming I'm
assuming that we're all in the same
context
of you know whatever it might be say
Suburban living
but if I'm in the context of hiding
people from a authoritarian government
who wants to kill them that's a
different context but at least at that
point lines more of a question
you know for me it wouldn't be a
question it would be yes I would lie to
the authoritarian government but there
would be more of a question about the
right and wrongness of it and and so
everybody has their own context and so
to think you know something is to not
only assume that you know the right
answer but it's also to assume that you
know the context of the person that
you're going around with and and it's
also to assume that they don't have some
wisdom in what they're saying which is
ridiculous we can't be that so it's far
better to be in Wonder and then you're
in a journey with the people and you're
both learning and it's like your Mutual
Freedom instead of you're telling them
something right so how do you how do you
stop uh like a shutdown of Wonder from
happening this this collapse into
knowing
um like wonder wonder seems like it
might be a pretty fragile thing
sometimes like even even being afraid of
not being in enough Wonder
um like telling myself okay now I'm
gonna walk around the world and wonder
all the time oh God damn it I'm not
doing it oh like so even that fear might
be enough to start to cause us to start
closing down how do you
how do you keep the Wonder Channel open
yeah it's a great question it's it's a
far more of a undoing than it is a doing
it's effort is one of the things that
makes Wonder more difficult so
but the trick is when when I say it's an
undoing if I say okay now I have to go
and do wonder and I have to be in a
Wonder state of mind that immediately
makes it harder to be in a Wonder State
of Mind
but there's no moment where if you look
there's not something you're curious
about
so just keep it really simple all you
have to you know just look around your
room right now there's something that's
that's like wondrous you don't know even
how the bed sheets were made you don't
know who made them
you don't know
like if the company still exists you
don't know about the detergents you
don't like and and if you happen to be
one of those people who knows exactly
that then you don't know about the paint
there's never a moment especially when
you're with somebody else or when you're
in nature when there isn't this
opportunity for awe and so to try to get
there takes you away but to just
recognize that there's something in you
and and if you see this with like kids
they're just in a state of
Wonder all the time I remember this
psychological study of
when children are most likely to smile
when they're infants and it's not when
they're about to be fed which is what
they thought and they did this by facial
positions of what a kid would see before
feeding and it's when they're in being
engaged where there's learning happening
and young kids just love to learn until
it gets kicked out of them by a parent
or a teacher or something like that
curiosity is our nature it's absolutely
our nature which it means basically
being in Wonder and investigating and
ooh it's it like it's in our nature
and so all you have to do is
undo everything that's taking you away
from your nature that's it and and
that's it's simple it's just like what
what is wonderful about this what what
am I awestruck about what what am I
curious about in a way that I don't need
to find an answer just what what am I
going to say next
what are some like examples or steps or
pointers that we could bring from this
this podcast into our lives to cultivate
a deeper sense of wonder practice is
good you know it's just asking yourself
what what am I in wonder about right now
is just like if you just do that 10
times a day that's a pretty tremendous
way to get there
um it's a it's really a point of view of
looking at the world if you think about
um a little kid and he's picking up a
frog for the first time and how they how
he looks or she looks at that frog like
that's the way you can look at life
that's the way you can look at your
business if you were to save just for a
for a second if you had two people who
were looking at a business and both of
them had the same level of knowledge
let's say and one of them was looking at
it with immense wonder and one of them
was looking at it with like I'm trying
to solve the problem what do you think
is going to happen with those two people
and so how do you inspire that in
yourself is really just it's just a a
question of intention it's not a
question of doing it's not a question of
effort it's just a question of
getting in touch with that part
and and if you ever are not there and
you can't find your way there then I
really suggest looking at the context of
something
or questioning the Assumption of
something what do you mean by that
questioning the assumption is a great
way to also get out of partiality
um and to become impartial as well
um but it means that if I say to you oh
life is challenging because I don't have
enough work
there's so many assumptions in that
right there's an assumption that it's
challenging not to have enough work
there's an assumption that I don't have
enough work
there's an assumption that I should have
more work
all of those things in instead of there
could be other assumptions there could
be assumptions like
oh wow I have free time to start my own
business
it could say
oh wow there's something here that's
asking me to an opportunity here to take
my marketing to the next level
there's all sorts of assumptions that
one can make about having less work one
week than say the next week or one year
say to the next year and so questioning
the Assumption that's in your mind is
one of the quickest ways to get to
wonder or in somebody else's mind is one
of the quickest ways and then also
uh to question the context right so I
don't have enough work in America is
very different and then I don't have
enough work in Africa which is very
different than I don't have enough work
in Iceland or like they're different
experiences and so
what's happening there what like what
makes you think your truth is truth
everywhere
or even true for you right now because
I'm not having enough work for me is
priceless
it's like that that's that free time is
lovely
so with with every tool like this
there's there's always ways that they
can be used in a way that's performative
or inauthentic and I've definitely found
myself in a number of conversations
where it felt like the other person was
pretending to be interested in me as if
they were acting out of some sort of
like a curiosity script and this kind of
interaction feels really creepy and
probing how do we how can we cultivate
an authentic State of Wonder without
creeping people out as we like practice
and try to try to be in wonder
yeah these are some of the you're
touching on some things that make
like if Wonder gets a little tilted
um it can become a strategy and as soon
as it becomes a strategy it starts to
feel creepy so
I know people who are always asking
questions but that's just to avoid any
kind of intimacy about themselves I know
people who are asking questions because
it's their way of trying to create
intimacy but if you're trying to create
intimacy it doesn't it's not intimacy
um so yes I see that happen a lot and
the the answer simply is that like don't
be inauthentic the the most simple
answer is don't use this as a strategy
like
have Wonder for the sake of Wonder for
for the for the gifts that it brings for
the the feelings and Sensations in your
body that it creates like that awe
creates and and and be there
it's far more enjoyable than to be
strategic about it or to try to avoid
intimacy
uh those are both far more painful
states of existence to be in so that's
the easiest way to say it um I guess
being being strategic about it like
implies that there's a certain outcome
that you're trying to get which that's a
certain kind of knowing right or a
defense you're trying to yeah an outcome
through defending yourself
um and and if people are creeped out if
you really want to get into wonder if
you notice that like you're asking
questions and they're start resisting
you can just be and wonder about that
you can be like oh what's making you
feel creeped out right now
and they might say like well like I feel
like I'm being probed I feel like I'm
under investigation and then you can
be vulnerable or correct or say oh wow
what well what do you want to ask me
you know you can also just apologize and
say I'm sorry like yeah I was kind of I
was kind of asking you questions as a
way to avoid myself or to you know or as
an experiment or whatever your your
ulterior motive was
yeah it's it's really all the whole
thing is in a frame of mind and that's
when we get back to that thing view is a
state of mind and if you start it starts
becoming a technique it'll just cease to
work at least most of the time in a lot
of conversations the the context of the
conversation is built around us being
looked at as an expert or the holder of
knowledge this can happen often and work
like in consulting or sales or speaking
or your role in this podcast for
instance how do you stay and wonder when
you or your ideas are themselves the
topic of discussion or in the spotlight
and you're expected to be delivering
information rather than consuming it
I think I gave a talk uh I think a
couple three times and like the very
beginning of my talk was like I have no
idea what I'm about to say like I I
purposely got here on the stage
without preparation
on purpose
the only thing I had in my mind was to
not be prepared when I came on the stage
because I want to talk about how what
what life is like in this state of just
being in this moment and seeing what
happens seeing what comes out
so oftentimes during all these podcasts
there's I'm I am curious and and in
Wonder of what I'm curious about what's
going to come out of my mouth and I'm in
Wonder of what does come out of my mouth
often and
almost just similarly which is
ridiculous this actually might make
everybody lose a little faith I'm also
people will tell me they'll be like oh
this thing happened on your podcast that
was so great and I'm like really I said
that
no I have no recollection of it and and
sometimes I'm quite impressed with what
I say and sometimes I'm like oh that's
that's a little off to me being in the
question with somebody is far more
valuable and when I think about the the
idea of like let's say you watch a
normal Ted Talk where there's somebody
who's really there explaining some piece
of knowledge and it's like absolutely
totally fascinating about it
it's like it's a wonderful thing
to listen to and and it's it's made even
more wonderful if you see their own awe
of this situation if you see that
they're still in the question
someplace in there there's a question
that they're still living in and then
you then you really want to be there
with them yeah it's like they're
inviting you into the question with them
and showing you a map of what they've
seen so far yeah that's exactly right
and that's a that's a whole different
way
uh than like you know hey I got my TED
talk I'm gonna tell you what's what and
I'm gonna tell you the conclusion to
have and I'm gonna tell you there's no
more questions left like you just see
people are more likely to bristle yeah
you know unless they happen to agree
with this person or they've never
thought about it before so that's the
other thing and the other thing that
happens when you're in that state of
Wonder as as the expert as the knower it
happens to me all the time you've
witnessed this is people are like I
don't agree with you and I'll be like
yeah I don't agree with me entirely
either like I get because as soon as I
switch the context I can see oh yeah
that's
that's not true I can be speaking one
moment about
you know freedom of choice that there's
choice and that's a very useful thought
for somebody who feels stuck
and and feels like they are you know are
a victim of of things and so yeah I'll
talk all about Choice and then somebody
can say you know man there's no choice
it's all Grace and I'll be like yep and
totally it's so true I I can't even
decide what to think I can't even I
can't even decide to stop thinking
entirely
you know or forever so so yeah I don't
have control over that and so if I don't
even have control over the most basic
things then how can I have control over
everything else I don't have any choice
and and so if you're in that state of
Wonder there's no personal attachment to
the knowledge and there's the ability to
see the other sides of it and to start
understanding the context and that's I
mean that's where the tremendous amount
of freedom is yeah right because most of
our pain comes from defending an idea
yeah that wonder about our about our
choice or our internal experience is
interesting is each of these tools
brings brings its own interesting twist
when we direct them inward uh like what
what happens when we have Wonder for
ourselves and for our experience
uh it's really sweet it's really it's
like it's like a little Slice of Heaven
it to be in a state of wonder about your
internal experience I I am like there
was a time in meditation for a while
where I just all I did was focus on the
unknown I would just be silent with my
eyes closed and I would just focus on
what I didn't know it's a really cool
experience if you if you get a chance
um if you want to make a chance for
yourself to do that
it's so sweet
and it's also sweet because all the
things that you tell yourself that inner
critic just like it starts to lose all
of its grip
if you're able to focus on
the Wonder so when your voice says you
gotta eat less
you have to work out more whatever you
need to have a nicer butt like and that
is met with wonder
what's what's the nicer bucket to get me
then I have somebody maybe who loves me
for my butt
if I look in the world at the people
with the nicest butts like do they have
the life I want what what's happening
here like yeah there's so much Freedom
people could be at an entirely different
context there where it's like well if I
have a nice butt then I'm going to get a
lot of attention I don't want the
attention I don't want a bunch of creepy
guys
so
um or or creepy girls or girls I don't
know why I use that from the other
um yeah so so yeah that's the it's just
it's a it's a quite a lovely existence
to be in wonder about yourself it's far
more neat instead of being like this is
how I am and this is how I need to
change I feel like I wonder what I'm
gonna do next
I wonder what's making me do this again
what's your favorite example of a of a a
moment when bringing a little Wonder to
the moment changed everything for you an
example recently like last night uh we
we
've left uh California because of the
fires in the smoke and so we went to
Arizona and we took our girls out to
a stunning Lake
and when we were driving back there is
this steak house and there is um a
political signs that were
in contrast with my daughter's political
beliefs so my daughters are young but
you know societally right now there's a
lot of fire over the political system a
lot of people believe in really strong
have really strong and so my girls have
adopted some of that stuff and then when
I see these signs on a restaurant which
is pretty bold in America
to
you know potentially say no to half of
your clientele because you're so
enamored of a political candidate so
my daughters didn't like this political
candidate and I was like okay we're
gonna go eat there let's go eat
and and they were so one was scared and
one was like no I don't wanna I don't
want to deal with these people and and I
was saying well how is that any
different than racism
like if if what you think they're doing
is is is ignorant like how how do you
we're not in control of our own
ignorance just as much as we're not in
control of our own race
so what makes it okay to just not even
want to be around and and that was the
beginning of the Wonder
and so we ended up we have this new
puppy and all of a sudden the some of
the people around us were
loud and boisterous it was you know a
desert bar kind of Steakhouse thing and
they were you know made the kids even
more anxious for a while and then all of
a sudden the dog
got into like and there was like all of
a sudden there's this connection and
then there were the the waiter was super
nice and they were just like all of a
sudden it was just like we were humans
together again
and as we were driving home I I heard
both of my daughters see interestingly C
some of the wisdom on the other side of
the political argument to to be able to
see like oh I see how they would view
things this way given this circumstance
given this thing not that they agreed
with it or disagreed with it anymore but
it was just this
it was just like it like they their
heart opened up because they were in
wonder about this whole situation it was
it was an incredibly beautiful thing to
watch
um and I think that that's the way it is
all the time we come across our knowing
and we don't want it to be messed with
because we don't want that feeling of
uncertainty and it's amazing what Wonder
does is like uncertainty doesn't matter
and wonder
like it's just it's quite lovely yeah
wow that's that is beautiful how can we
expect Our Lives to change as we deepen
our Wonder more joy more off quicker
progress
deeper relationships it changes
stuckness
it opens up stuckness
more intimacy
you know
like that
all those all those cool and groovy
things man I it's just life is better
and and we're more capable we're more
competent
you can be certain and still be in
wonder I think that's I think that's the
complication that people have a hard
time
understanding
you know I know in my business what the
next step is
I don't know that it's going to be the
right step I don't know that a better
next step isn't going to show up a
second from now
and it's not like I'm not in Wonder of
like well how is this the best step
but I have a certainty over my next step
I I know the next thing that I'm called
to do
when I'm talking to somebody
I might be completely baffled by what's
coming out of my mouth which is a like a
constant state of being but I know that
this whatever comes out is a thing
that's supposed to be coming out right
so I'm not questioning myself I'm not
like
I'm not like why is that the right thing
is that how did that it's just there's a
knowing of my truth there's a knowing of
of like a a process that works
and if somebody comes up with something
else I can totally be like oh what what
am I missing What's Happening Here what
what am I not seeing
and so it doesn't stop me from being
certain it doesn't stop me from but it
stops me from thinking that I know
that's what it stops me from right I
don't think that I know I just
I just know what the right next step is
for me or for what I'm here to do
and I only know that that's a right Next
Step for instance if I'm taking the
right Next Step it might be just to find
out how bad
I've done it or how wrong it is or how
messed up that idea was
it might be to learn it might not be to
succeed
and and it might be that I take that
step only to find out oh I need to go
back the other way
so there's a certainty that I'm living
with
that is not at all in conflict with
Wonder
and I think that's something that people
get confused about and wonder yeah I
think that relates back to the uh
dissociation version of
like not really in Wonder but like that
that story earlier in the episode yeah
that's right yeah it's so I just I just
say like being in wonder doesn't mean
that you're not
clear on the actions that you're taking
it's not it's not that you're not clear
on
like oh I from my experience this is the
thing to do and then you're totally open
that something might stand against it
this time so you're in the clarity but
also ready to update what you think the
next step is by constantly surveying for
new information yeah exactly I mean it's
the same way that mice move right I mean
mice and other small mammals are
desperately curious animals but then it
doesn't make them hesitate and they
they're going about their day they're
sticking to the size of the wall
collecting seeds like making decisions
about left or right at every you know
every two seconds with clarity
and yet they have this deep level of
like what's this what's this can I get
through here you know like what's
happening what's happening unless
they're traumatized and frees up in fear
right which is what we do sometimes
exactly yes you can traumatize animals
too yeah
so let's let's tie all this back into
view like a like a view conversation how
can can you summarize some pointers that
we could bring that we could use to
bring more Wonder into our our view
conversations yeah the most important is
just to follow your Wonder like it's a
trail and just follow it in the
conversation about the other person
about yourself in the conversation just
follow it and if you're gonna have to
hold an agenda right if you're going to
be partial about anything be partial
about staying in wonder
like that's the thing and
and you're treating it like I said like
a kid holding a frog or a lizard for the
first time uh also just seek what you
don't know right so oftentimes you know
you'll be presented with data from the a
person my mother did this my father did
this and
this is how it's affecting me
and what is it then to say what do I not
know so I just got told all this
information and and there's a thought
process that the first thing I'm
supposed to do is take all this
information and then spit out a good
question
what if the thing you're supposed to do
is first find out all the things you
don't know because often thinks if
someone tells you the story they're
telling you all the things that they
know
so there's no new information
but if you start focusing on what you
don't know it might also be stuff that
they don't know
so that's another thing that you can do
um and then as we talked about
questioning the context and the
assumptions
those are all ways to be you know in
Wonder but more importantly it's like to
be in awe of what's happening for that
person
it might be you know you have this
friend and you have a friend who's
constantly telling you about how the
boyfriend isn't working and you're just
like a good stop talking to me about
this right you I mean we all have this
friend and
or have had this friend at some point in
our life who
is in their Loop and then they bring us
into it with a conversation every week
or so and like what's what do you and
wonder about there what's the thing that
you don't know
what's the thing that you
have just like how how like even maybe
the question is how do you keep doing
this
what is it that's working for you here
that keeps you in this relationship
there's just there's something there
always and so that's where you can go
and it's a lot easier to find if you're
not trying to lead them anywhere because
then it's just the natural thing that
arises in you
all right so let's let's close this
episode a little bit differently I'd
love for you to tell me about your most
spectacular epic fail
Wonder face plant like a moment we're
just a little more wonder it could have
gone a long way but it just didn't have
it
uh
oh good
um let's see the biggest one uh so in
college
I had the the honor of being kicked out
of my first college beyond that I had
the honor of having like a
3.95 grade point average and getting
kicked out of my college at the same
time and and that could only be done if
I was in knowing instead instead of um
Wonder
so the way it worked was uh because of
my upbringing that like rebellion was
really the thing for me like that was my
caricature and and uh and so I went to
college and they had all these rules it
was the beginning of like a stronger
morality in college or the the college
decided there was going to be some moral
education as well as just and so
and I really didn't like it I didn't I
didn't like it at all and so I rebelled
against it that was like my thing and I
was I was being a punk like there's no
doubt about it and um people would come
in and put signs in the dorm and it
would block the windows
and you know the signs would be
Christian fellowship or whatever those
things were and I just take down the
signs like hey if you can just cover my
windows I can just uncover my windows
and you know the the people of power in
the room or whatever of apparent power
in the room said like what are we going
to do about this I'm like oh I pay rent
I'm Gonna Keep on taking the signs down
that was my attitude because I was I was
right in my mind right I couldn't see
their context
and I was right I was like you don't
have the right to do this and and there
was other things you know where the
different things I mean I got I got
busted once drinking in my room there's
people who got busted like smoking pot
like 10 times and nothing ever happened
but I got busted once and I was on a
roof once not correctly and whatever and
I had anyways I got kicked out of the
dorms or I got in trouble from one of
these things that I did 355m of the
California Penal Code annoying phone
conversation
and you know the powers that be were
really annoyed with me because I was not
being compliant and and I was not like
buying into the whole situation and
and so I went to the Ombudsman I said
hey like this is ridiculous and he's
like yeah yeah it's totally ridiculous
just say you're sorry
I was like well I I'm not sorry and I
don't want to be sorry and
and he was like yeah but if you don't
you're gonna like get kicked out of
college and did it like it's a kangaroo
court I mean this is the Ombudsman right
the person who suppose he's like he's
just nothing like you just say I'm sorry
and
you'll get a slap on the wrist well I
didn't say I was sorry I um I had the
longest Court thing that they had ever
had and
um I had
Ras defending me I had a petition of 300
people I had
um I like have my professors come in and
talk about how I contributed and
and all of this all it did was just piss
these people off more and more and more
I was like just flying in the face of
them I wasn't on a Learning Journey with
them at all at all
um and so you and I so then I got the
response and they were like okay well so
here's our agreement we're going to kick
you out of school for a year and kick
out of the dorms for life
and and I had a history Professor who
didn't know me at the time say uh you
said he said
um how can I expect you to go out into
the world and have uh healthy children
if this is the way you're going to
behave wow yeah it was it was something
uh so on some way that luckily I was
still in my knowing after that and so I
threatened to sue the school and the
355m at the California Penal Code
annoying phone conversation that never
landed
and so there there was no charges and
but the school you know these authority
figures at the time they did their thing
and and I mean no doubt I was an ass and
so I just said I'm gonna sue you guys
this is ridiculous you can't do this and
the dean of students who wasn't involved
was like yeah this is like utterly
ridiculous and so he suspended me for a
quarter and out of the dorms for a year
and then I switched schools what I
learned in that process was that being
right doesn't mean anything like having
the best database doesn't make you the
best database company having we have
this idea that being right is important
but being like all the people who are
right the most like what what has it
gotten them
and does it even increase their odds of
success or happiness
or good relationships then I remember it
striking me like yeah I I can't look
back and say that I was wrong
I can't look back and say that nowadays
I can't look back and even say that they
were wrong I think we were both
um ignorant because we were both in and
so on some level of war with ourselves
and each other but we none of us gotten
any closer to understanding ourselves
and each other in the process none of us
made any progress they didn't have a
better dorm because of it they they
weren't happier people because of it
neither was I
uh what was what was stopping you from
being in the Wonder throughout that
whole experience
oh I had a self-definition of being
right it was really important in my
family of origin to be right you know
like if there'd be debates or arguments
or yells and whatever there was and if
you weren't right you were going to get
it worse so you had to prove yourself to
be right
and so I was I identified with being
right at the time I identified with
a fairness
and I was going to fight for that
fairness
and now it's like kind of how does that
help me to be right like what am I what
am I do I do I want the answer to be
right I don't want I don't care if the
answer is right that's not the answer I
want to the question what am I
um it reminds me of a conversation I had
a a while back where somebody just like
paused me in the middle of the
conversation they're like it seems like
you're being very right right now how
could we optimize for connection
right oh
oh I see
yeah
yeah exactly yeah yeah that's how I was
in a conversation with the college about
being right
and I mean it was the fortunate piece I
mean this is the the thing is like I was
completely certain about this stuff at
the time and it led me into a job for
the time that I was suspended which was
caring for developmentally disabled kids
it was a job that I got quickly and I
and I got promoted quickly and then I
was in charge of this house of kids and
these residents and I that was who I was
and that's what I was doing at the time
and like
talk about
seeing that you can have connection with
people who are is not even capable of
being a quarter of his right right like
developmentally disabled people is like
even a thought process a complicated
thought process is not really at their
fingertips
and yet they could be beautiful people
they could be you could have a deep
connection with them and and so I
learned the lesson I learned the lesson
that being right had nothing to do with
you know anything that was important to
me yeah often often their thought
processes are more complicated in a
different direction than you did than
than you expected and there's actually
something brilliant behind it yeah or or
beautifully simple that you'd overlooked
yeah if you sat and wondered with these
guys you there you were you were in for
a treat
you know there was there it was
frustrating at times two no doubt but it
was you were often in for a treat if you
could just sit and wonder with them and
see the world through their eyes you
know well that wraps it up for a view
and um thank you very much Joe and I
wonder what our next episode will be me
too
oh thanks Brett it was a pleasure as
always
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
in your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign